#20: Added requirements and design (#136)
exasol/project-keeper-maven-plugin: doc/system_requirements.md

## Features

Features are the highest level requirements in this document that describe the main functionality of PK.

### Verify Repository

`feat~verify-repo-setup~1`

PK can check if the repository structure is up to date.

Needs: req

> #### Verify POM File

Author: yea

`req~verify-pom-file~1`

Needs: req

##### Verify Maven Plugins

`req~verify-mvn-plugins~1`

PK can verify that a project's pom.xml file contains certain plugins.

Covers:

* `req~verify-pom-file~1`

Needs: dsn

##### Verify Maven Dependencies

`req~verify-maven-dependencies~1`

PK can verify that a project's pom file contains certain mandatory dependencies.

Covers:

* `req~verify-pom-file~1`

Needs: dsn

#### Verify changes_x.x.x.md file

`req~verify-changes_x.x.x.md-file~1`

PK verifies the content of the `doc/changes/changes_X.X.X.md` file for the project's current version.

Needs: req

##### Verify Dependency Changes Section in changes_x.x.x.md File

`req~verify-dependency-section-in-changes_x.x.x.md-file~1`

> PK verifies that the `## Dependency Updates` section in the `changes_X.X.X.md` file contains a list of the project dependencies that were added, updated or removed since the last projects release. PK formats the report like the following example:

Reviewer: I understand that we want to show how the versions are listed in the example, but I think you can remove the example. And change the last sentence to `PK formats the report in a clear bulleted lists.` should be fine.

> PK verifies that the `## Dependency Updates` section in the `changes_X.X.X.md` file contains a list of the project dependencies that were added, updated or removed since the last projects release. PK formats the report like the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PK verifies that the `## Dependency Updates` section in the `changes_X.X.X.md` file contains a list of the project dependencies that were added, updated, or removed since the last release of the project. PK formats the report like the following example:
```

```md
\#\# Dependency Updates

\#\#\# Compile Dependency Updates

* Updated `org.eclipse.jgit:org.eclipse.jgit:5.10.0.202012080955-r` to `5.11.0.202103091610-r`

\#\#\# Runtime Dependency Updates

* Added `org.jacoco:org.jacoco.agent:0.8.6`

\#\#\# Test Dependency Updates

* Removed `com.exasol:maven-plugin-integration-testing:0.1.0`

\#\#\# Plugin Dependency Updates

* Updated `org.jacoco:jacoco-maven-plugin:0.8.5` to `0.8.6`
```

Covers:

* `req~verify-changes_x.x.x.md-file~1`

Needs: dsn

#### Verify dependencies.md File

`req~verify-dependencies-file~1`

> PK verifies that the repository contains a `dependencies.md` file that contains a Markdown table with all dependencies (name + link), and their licenses (name + link). PK groups the table into sections for compile, runtime, test anbd plugin dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PK verifies that the repository contains a `dependencies.md` file that contains a Markdown table with all dependencies, and their licenses. The table contains URL to dependency and license websites. PK groups the table into sections for compile, runtime, test and plugin dependencies.
```

The dependencies table also includes the build plugins.

Covers:

* [feat~verify-repo-setup~1](#verify-repository)

Needs: dsn

> #### Verify That Files Exist

Reviewer: Should we change this to `Verify Existence of Files`?

`req~verify-that-files-exist~1`

> PK verifies that certain files exist in the repository (with an arbitrary content).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PK verifies that certain files exist in the repository. PK does not check content of these files.
```

Examples: `README.md`, `travis.yml`.

Covers:

> * [feat~verify-repo-setup~1](#verify-repository)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`feat~verify-repo-setup~1`](#verify-repository)
```

Needs: dsn

> #### Verify That Files do not Exist

Reviewer: This one to `Verify non Existence of Files` ?

Reviewer: It is a suggestion, maybe we could also use `Availability` also.

`req~verify-that-files-do-not-exist~1`

PK verifies that certain files do not exist in the repository.

Example: Broken-Link checker GitHub workflow

Rationale:

From time to time we rename a required file. In that case, PK should make sure that the old version of the file no longer exists in the repositories.

Covers:

> * [feat~verify-repo-setup~1](#verify-repository)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [`feat~verify-repo-setup~1`](#verify-repository)
```

Needs: dsn

### Fix Findings

`feat~fix-findings~1`

Wherever possible, PK can automatically fix the validation findings.

Rationale:

> Fixing the findings by hand would be a wast of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixing the findings using PK improves productivity.
```

Needs: dsn

### Configuration

`feat~configuration~1`

> Users can configure the project template to a certain degree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PK allows users to configure the project with different templates.
```

Rationale:

> Different projects require different project structures. For example projects that are released on maven central need more maven plugin than other projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Different projects require different project structures. For example, projects that are released on maven central need more maven plugins than other projects.
```

Needs: dsn

### Maven Integration

`feat~mvn-integration~1`

> PK can be integrated in the maven lifecycle. By that it can break the CI build if the project structure is invalid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PK can be integrated into the maven lifecycle. By that, it can break the Continuous Integration (CI) build if the project structure is invalid.
```
